Creating Dates Concept (#1579)
exercism/javascript: concepts/dates/about.md

# About

JavaScript has a built in object: `Date`, which stores date and time, and provides methods for their management.

## Creation

A Date object can be created without arguments to obtain the current date and time:

```javascript
let now = new Date();
alert(now);
//shows current day, date and time in your time zone
```

However, different types of arguments can also be used to create date object, as follows:

### Timestamp value

A timestamp is an integer number representing the number of **milliseconds** that has passed since **Jan 1st of 1970 [UTC][utc-defn]+0**, however, _with reference to your local time zone._
This can be used as an argumect for the Date object.

```javascript
// 0 means 01.01.1970 UTC+0
const Jan01_1970 = new Date(0);
console.log(Jan01_1970);

// adding 24 hours, we get 02.01.1970 UTC+0
const Jan02_1970 = new Date(24 * 3600 * 1000);

> console.log(Jan02_1970);

Author: I'm sorry about infringing the copyrights. Will credit the source.
However, there is some content I have copied but modified. The javascript.info license says that should be mentioned. How do I do that?

> console.log(Jan02_1970);

Reviewer: I would also use a footnote in this case and then say something like "Paragraph adapted from ..." there.

//Note that the objects created here would show the corresponding time in your time zone
```

```exercism/note
January 1st, 1970 at 00:00:00 UTC is referred to as the Unix epoch.
Unix is an operating system originally developed in the 1960s.
Early Unix engineers picked that date arbitrarily because they needed to set a uniform date for the start of time, and New Year's Day, 1970, seemed most convenient.
```

### Timestamp string

> A string value representing a date is used, specified in a format recognized by `Date.parse()` method, about which you will learn soon in this article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can pass a string value representing a date to the `Date` constructor.
The string needs to follow a format that is recognized by the `Date.parse()` method.
You will learn more about this below.
```

The default is 0 seconds past the minute.

`milliseconds` (Optional)

Integer value representing the millisecond segment of a time.
The default is 0 milliseconds past the second.

```javascript
const date1 = new Date(95, 11, 17); // Creates Date for Dec 17 1995
const date2 = new Date(2013, 12, 5, 13, 24, 0); // Creates Date for Jan 5 2014 13:24
```

## `Date.parse()`

`Date.parse()` takes **string as a input and returns a timestamp** (number of milliseconds from 1 Jan 1970 UTC+0), provided the string is in the format YYYY-MM-DDTHH:mm:ss.sssZ, where:

`YYYY-MM-DD` - is the date: year-month-day.

`T` - The character "T" is used as the delimiter.

`HH:mm:ss.sss` - is the time: hours, minutes, seconds and milliseconds.

`Z` - This _optional_ part denotes the time zone.
If `Z` is present, the `Date` will be set to UTC.
If `Z` is not present, it will be Local Time.

If the format is invalid, `NaN` is returned

Shorter variants are also possible, like `YYYY-MM-DD` or `YYYY-MM` or even `YYYY`. However not that these variants **set the `Date` to UTC**, even though `Z` not mentioned. To understand what exactly happens check out [this section][mdn-diff-assumed-timezone] of a MDN page.

> TODO complete eg below

Reviewer: ?
